# pandas-challenge
Using Pandas and Jupyter Notebook, create a report that includes the following data. Your report must include a written description of at least two observable trends based on the data.

## Local Government Area (LGA) Summary
Include the following:

Total number of unique schools

Total students

Total budget

Average maths score

Average reading score

% passing maths (the percentage of students who passed maths)

% passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading)

% overall passing (the percentage of students who passed maths AND reading)

## School Summary

Include the following:

School name

School type

Total students

Total school budget

Per student budget

Average maths score

Average reading score

% passing maths (the percentage of students who passed maths)

% passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading)

% overall passing (the percentage of students who passed maths AND reading)

## Highest-Performing Schools (by % Overall Passing)
Sort the schools by % Overall Passing in descending order and display the top 5 rows.

## Lowest-Performing Schools (by % Overall Passing)
Sort the schools by % Overall Passing in ascending order and display the top 5 rows.

## Maths Scores by Year & Reading Scores by Year
Perform the necessary calculations to create a DataFrame that lists the average maths and reading score for students of each year level (9, 10, 11, 12) at each school.

## Scores by School Spending
Create a table that breaks down school performance based on average spending ranges (per student).

## Scores by School Size
Create a DataFrame called size_summary that breaks down school performance based on school size (small, medium, or large).
## Scores by School Type
Use the per_school_summary DataFrame from the previous step to create a new DataFrame called type_summary.

## References 

1. Data generated by https://mockaroo.com/ (2022). Realistic Data Generator. Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

2.  I have received support from support staff at ask BCS staff.

3. Used the drop_duplicates fuction to remove all duplicates. https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.iterrows.html

4. Used this functiom to iterate over DataFrame rows. https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.iterrows.html#pandas.DataFrame.iterrows

## Q & A

1.	Summarises the analysis. 

In this analysis I have analysed school’s data in my local government area. This includes following, 
-	Total number of unique schools
-	Total students
-	Total budget
-	Average maths score
-	Average reading score
-	% passing maths (the percentage of students who passed maths)
-	% passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading)
-	% overall passing (the percentage of students who passed maths AND reading)

In addition to that I have created school summary grouped by the school’s name, this includes following,
-	School name
-	School type
-	Total students
-	Total school budget
-	Per student budget
-	Average maths score
-	Average reading score
-	% passing maths (the percentage of students who passed maths)
-	% passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading)
-	% overall passing (the percentage of students who passed maths AND reading)

I have created new tables to discover Highest performing schools in the area, lowest performing schools in the area and I have created tables to analyse schools in based different criteria. 
-	Maths scores by Year (9,10,11,12)
-	Reading scores by Year (9,10,11,12)
-	Scores by school spending (<$585", "$585-630", "$630-645", "$645-680)
-	Scores by school size (Small (<1000)", "Medium (1000-2000)", "Large (2000-5000))
-	Scores by school type (Government or Independent) 

2.	Draws two correct conclusions or comparisons from the calculations,

•	 first conclusion is students from smaller sized schools have better average results in ‘% overall passing’ when it is compared to medium and large sized schools.

•	When it comes to government and independent schools, independent schools have better results in every aspect compared to government schools.

•	Following five schools are the lowest performing schools by overall performances of students in our local government area which we need to be more concerned about,

-	Hernandez High School
-	Huang High School
-	Johnson High School
-	Wilson High School
-	Ford High School



